# AudioCloud
CS732/SE750 Project by the Opulent Oysters

## Members
1. Joshua Zhu (jzhu709)
2. Bovey Yu (byu116)
3. Anton Lui (mlui502)
4. Gavin Mackintosh (gmac685)
5. Kevin Wu (zwu238)
6. Minghao Lin (mlin538)

## Project Overview
Our project is aimed to provide an inclusive, user-friendly "party playlist" music streaming application where anyone at a party can add and upvote their favourite songs to play. The application is web-based using MongoDB as the database, ASP.NET Core as the backend, and React as the frontend. Our app is also powered by Spotify, as we utilise their API and services to play music. 

## Features
- Users can choose to "Join" or "Host" a room
  - Users that "Host" a room must login with their Spotify Premium Account, which creates and joins a room
  - Users that "Join" a room need to enter the room code and username (no login or account needed!)
- In the room:
  - Users can search songs in Spotify
  - Users have a live view of the playlist queue and what song is currently playing
  - Users can add songs to the playlist queue
  - Users can like/upvote songs to push them earlier in the queue (ties broken by order added into the room)
  - The host can play/pause the songs and skip to the next song
  - The host can remove songs
  - The host can change the room settings, such as choosing whether or not explicit songs are allowed to be added to the room
  - Users can switch to TV mode (to be displayed on a big screen), showing the current song information and QR code to the webapp
  - Users have access to real-time lyrics for karaoke lovers!

## Important Notes

A spotify premium account is required to host a party room. This is due to the Spotify API requirements. This spotify account must also be added to the Spotify developer dashboard, since the application is in Spotify's Development Mode, which only allows 25 users at maximum that are all registered on the dashboard. Contact gmac685@aucklanduni.ac.nz if you would like to be added.

## How to run the project

### Start the backend first
This assumes you have the ASP.NET Core SDK installed on your computer. You can download this from https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download.

Once you have .NET installed, you will have access to the `dotnet` commands.

To run the backend, open a terminal and make sure you are at the root folder. Enter the following commands:
```
cd backend
dotnet run
```
The backend should now be running from the terminal!

### Start the frontend
To run the frontend, open a terminal and make sure you are at the root folder. Enter the following commands:
```
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```
We can then click on the URL generated by the terminal to open the web page! 

### How to run the tests
Make sure you have .NET installed as mentioned above.

To run the tests for the backend endpoints, open a terminal and make sure you are at the root folder. Enter the following commands:
```
cd backend
dotnet test
```
To run the tests for the frontend components, open a terminal and make sure you are at the root folder. Enter the following commands:
```
cd frontend
npm install
npm test
```

## Project Management and Documentation (From the Wiki)

- [Meeting Minutes](https://github.com/UOA-CS732-SE750-Students-2023/project-group-opulent-oysters/wiki/Meeting-Minutes)
- [Task Breakdown](https://github.com/UOA-CS732-SE750-Students-2023/project-group-opulent-oysters/wiki/Meeting-Minutes)
- [AudioCloud Tutorial and Workflow](https://github.com/UOA-CS732-SE750-Students-2023/project-group-opulent-oysters/wiki/AudioCloud-Tutorial-and-Workflow)
